docs: updating content around Terraform usage (#2555)
jenkins-x/jx-docs: content/en/docs/getting-started/setup/create-cluster/gke.md

---
title: Create GKE cluster
linktitle: GKE
description: How to create a GKE cluster?
weight: 1
categories: [getting started]
keywords: [cluster]
---

The GKE Terraform Module for Jenkins X is available in the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/jenkins-x/jx/google).
The source is on GitHub in the [terraform-google-jx](https://github.com/jenkins-x/terraform-google-jx) repository.
Let's see how we can put it to action.

## Prerequisites

To create your GKE cluster, you need first a Google Cloud project.
Instructions on how to setup a project can be found in the Google Cloud [documentation](https://cloud.google.com/deployment-manager/docs/step-by-step-guide/installation-and-setup).
You need your Google Cloud project id as input for using the Terraform Module.

You also need to install the Cloud SDK, in particular `gcloud`.
You find instructions on how to install and authenticate in the documentation mentioned above.

Once you have `gcloud` installed, you need to create [Application Default Credentials](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/application-default/login) by running:

```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
```

> Last but not least, ensure you have the following binaries installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, ensure you have the following binaries installed:
```

- `gcloud`
- `kubectl` ~> 1.14.0
    - `kubectl` comes bundled with the Cloud SDK
- `terraform` ~> 0.12.0
    - Terraform installation instruction can be found [here](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install)

## Cluster creation

A default Jenkins X ready cluster can be provisioned by creating a file _main.tf_ with the following content in an empty directory:

```tf
module "jx" {
  source  = "jenkins-x/jx/google"

  gcp_project = "<my-gcp-project-id>"
}
```

> You can then apply this Terraform configuration via:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then apply this Terraform configuration via the following terminal commands:
```

```bash
terraform init
terraform apply
```

This creates a cluster within the specified Google Cloud project with all names and settings defaulted.
The default cluster name is _jenkins-x_.

On completion of `terraform apply` there will be a _jx-requirements.yaml_ in the working directory.
This file can be used as input for running [`jx boot`](/docs/getting-started/setup/boot).

Per default, no custom domain is used.
Instead DNS resolution is via [nip.io](https://nip.io/).
For more information on how to configure and use a custom domain, refer to [Using a custom domain](/docs/getting-started/setup/create-cluster/gke#using-a-custom-domain).

If you just want to evaluate Jenkins X, you can set `force_destroy` to `true`.
This allows you to remove all generated resources when running `terraform destroy`, including any generated buckets with their content.

> The following two paragraphs define the various configuration variables as well as the Module's output variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections define the various configuration variables as well as the Module's output variables.
```

### Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:-----:|

> | cluster\_name | Name of the K8s cluster to create | `string` | `"jenkins-x"` | no |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| cluster\_name | Name of the Kubernetes cluster to create | `string` | `"jenkins-x"` | no |
```

| dev\_env\_approvers | List of git users allowed to approve pull request for dev enviornment repository | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| force\_destroy | Flag to determine whether storage buckets get forcefully destroyed | `bool` | `false` | no |
| gcp\_project | The name of the GCP project to use | `string` | n/a | yes |
| git\_owner\_requirement\_repos | The git id of the owner for the requirement repositories | `string` | `""` | no |
| max\_node\_count | Maximum number of cluster nodes | `number` | `5` | no |
| min\_node\_count | Minimum number of cluster nodes | `number` | `3` | no |
| node\_disk\_size | Node disk size in GB | `string` | `"100"` | no |

> | node\_machine\_type | Node type for the K8s cluster | `string` | `"n1-standard-2"` | no |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| node\_machine\_type | Node type for the Kubernetes cluster | `string` | `"n1-standard-2"` | no |
```

| velero\_ttl | The the lifetime of a velero backup to be set in the Velero Schedule CRD (see [default-backup.yaml](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jenkins-x-boot-config/blob/master/systems/velero-backups/templates/default-backup)) | `string` | `"720h0m0s"` | no |
| version\_stream\_ref | The git ref for version stream to use when booting Jenkins X. Refer to [version stream](/docs/concepts/version-stream) for more information. | `string` | `"master"` | no |
| version\_stream\_url | The URL for the version stream to use when booting Jenkins X. Refer to [version stream](/docs/concepts/version-stream) for more information. | `string` | `"https://github.com/jenkins-x/jenkins-x-versions.git"` | no |
| webhook | Jenkins X webhook handler for git provider | `string` | `"prow"` | no |
| zone | Zone in which to create the cluster | `string` | `"us-central1-a"` | no |

### Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| backup\_bucket\_url | The URL to the bucket for backup storage |

> | cluster\_name | The name of the created K8s cluster |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| cluster\_name | The name of the created Kubernetes cluster |
```

> | gcp\_project | The GCP project in which the resources got created in |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| gcp\_project | The GCP project in which the resources got created |
```

| log\_storage\_url | The URL to the bucket for log storage |
| report\_storage\_url | The URL to the bucket for report storage |

> | repository\_storage\_url | The URL to the bucket for artefact storage |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| repository\_storage\_url | The URL to the bucket for artifact storage |
```

Author: I never know which one to use :-)

| vault\_bucket\_url | The URL to the bucket for secret storage |

> | zone | The zone of the created K8s cluster |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| zone | The zone of the created Kubernetes cluster |
```

Before you run the Terraform configuration, you also need to create a [Cloud DNS managed zone](https://cloud.google.com/dns/zones), with the DNS name in the managed zone matching your custom domain name, for example in the case of _example.jenkins-x.rocks_ as domain:

![Creating a Managed Zone](/images/getting-started/create_managed_zone.png)

When creating the managed zone, a set of DNS servers get created which you need to specify in the DNS settings of your DNS registrar.

![DNS settings of a Managed Zone](/images/getting-started/managed_zone_details.png)

It is essential that before you run `jx boot`, your DNS servers settings are propagated, and your domain resolves.
You can use [DNS checker](https://dnschecker.org/) to check whether your domain settings have propagated.

When a custom domain is provided, Jenkins X uses [ExternalDNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns) together with [cert-manager](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager) to create A record entries in your managed zone for the various exposed applications.

> If _parent_domain_ id not set, your cluster will use [nip.io](https://nip.io/) in order to create publicly resolvable URLs of the form ht<span>tp://\<app-name\>-\<environment-name\>.\<cluster-ip\>.nip.io.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If _parent_domain_ is not set, your cluster will use [nip.io](https://nip.io/) in order to create publicly resolvable URLs of the form http://\<app-name\>-\<environment-name\>.\<cluster-ip\>.nip.io.
```

Author: The span is actually intentional to prevent the URL being rendered as a clickable URL. This is just meant as an example URL schema. On Markdown on GitHub using the span is the easiest way to prevent this. Not sure whether Hugo has something else.

Reviewer 2: you should be able to add back-ticks around the url to avoid Hugo trying to make it clickable. 

I recall that there's another way to tell Hugo not to render it as a URL, but i can't seem to find it now; back-ticks might be your best bet
